---
title: James Smith for Holbrook
candidacy_id: "localwest-sussexholbrook2017-05-04"
---

I’m James Smith; a software engineer, and father of two young girls. I’ve lived in Holbrook for the last 6 years.

I stood in the 2015 general election as MP candidate for Horsham, and will do again in June. I’m not a career politician, but I decided to stand up and get involved because I was frustrated about the choices on offer. Nobody seemed to be representing the way I saw the world, with optimism and a real vision of a better future.

I’ve spent my career trying to use the power of the web to deal with the big problems around us, and now there is a movement growing that will take democracy forward, into the 21st century. I’m proud to be part of that with Something New.

## Healthcare

I believe there should be a basic “right to health”. I will fight NHS cuts wherever possible and work to make sure that those that we can’t avoid don’t fall on the most vulnerable in our society.

## Transport

I am opposed to any increase in air travel until it becomes environmentally sustainable. That means no expansion of Gatwick airport.

## Environment

We need renewable energy, not more fossil fuels, so I will resist fracking in the Weald and across the UK.

## schools
I will campaign for fair funding to help West Sussex schools that don’t get enough money (see the [Worth Less](https://facebook.com/WorthLessWestSussex/) campaign on Facebook).

## North Horsham People's Plan

North Horsham Parish Council hasn’t created a parish plan, so I’ve set up a website where we can all write one together.

It works in the same way as the Something New party manifesto; anyone can suggest a change, then we vote on it together.

To read the plan and get involved in making it better, visit [havesomenew.io/nhpp](https://northhorsham.github.io/peoples-plan/)